CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Gitingest

Thanks for your interest in contributing to Gitingest! 🚀 Gitingest aims to be friendly for first time contributors, with a simple Python and HTML codebase. We would love your help to make it even better. If you need any help while working with the code, please reach out to us on [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/zerRaGK9EC).

## How to Contribute (non-technical)

- **Create an Issue**: If you find a bug or have an idea for a new feature, please [create an issue](https://github.com/cyclotruc/gitingest/issues/new) on GitHub. This will help us track and prioritize your request.
- **Spread the Word**: If you like Gitingest, please share it with your friends, colleagues, and on social media. This will help us grow the community and make Gitingest even better.
- **Use Gitingest**: The best feedback comes from real-world usage! If you encounter any issues or have ideas for improvement, please let us know by [creating an issue](https://github.com/cyclotruc/gitingest/issues/new) on GitHub or by reaching out to us on [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/zerRaGK9EC).

## How to submit a Pull Request

1. Fork the repository.

2. Clone the forked repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/cyclotruc/gitingest.git
   cd gitingest
   ```

3. Set up the development environment and install dependencies:

   ```bash
   python -m venv .venv
   source .venv/bin/activate
   pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
   pre-commit install
   ```

4. Create a new branch for your changes:

    ```bash
    git checkout -b your-branch
    ```

5. Make your changes. Make sure to add corresponding tests for your changes.

6. Stage your changes:

    ```bash
    git add .
    ```

7. Run the tests:

   ```bash
   pytest
   ```

8. Run the local web server

   1. Navigate to src folder

        ``` bash
        cd src
        ```

   2. Run the local web server:

      ``` bash
      uvicorn server.main:app
      ```

   3. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8000` to see the app running.

9. Confirm that everything is working as expected. If you encounter any issues, fix them and repeat steps 6 to 8.

10. Commit your changes:

    ```bash
    git commit -m "Your commit message"
    ```

    If `pre-commit` raises any issues, fix them and repeat steps 6 to 9.

11. Push your changes:

    ```bash
    git push origin your-branch
    ```

12. Open a pull request on GitHub. Make sure to include a detailed description of your changes.

13. Wait for the maintainers to review your pull request. If there are any issues, fix them and repeat steps 6 to 12.

    *(Optional) Invite project maintainer to your branch for easier collaboration.*

## Bonnes pratiques de commit et versioning

- Utilisez des commits **atomiques** : chaque commit doit correspondre à une modification logique unique.
- Adoptez la convention [gitmoji](https://gitmoji.dev/) pour illustrer l’intention de vos commits avec un emoji (copiez l’emoji directement dans le message).
- Structure recommandée : `<emoji> <type/scope>: message explicite`
  - Exemples :
    - `✨ feat(cli): ajout de la génération dynamique des sous-commandes`
    - `♻️ refactor: centralisation des règles de classification dans YAML`
    - `🐛 fix: gestion correcte des allowlist dans le scan`
    - `🚀 perf: parallélisation de la lecture des fichiers`
    - `📝 docs: mise à jour du README et des instructions de contribution`
- Respectez le versioning sémantique (MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH) pour les releases.

Commit message:

📝 docs: clarify fork origin, add link to original Gitingest, rewrite documentation in English, highlight advanced features

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Gitingest

Thanks for your interest in contributing to Gitingest! 🚀 Gitingest aims to be friendly for first time contributors, with a simple Python and HTML codebase. We would love your help to make it even better. If you need any help while working with the code, please reach out to us on [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/zerRaGK9EC).

## How to Contribute (non-technical)

- **Create an Issue**: If you find a bug or have an idea for a new feature, please [create an issue](https://github.com/cyclotruc/gitingest/issues/new) on GitHub. This will help us track and prioritize your request.
- **Spread the Word**: If you like Gitingest, please share it with your friends, colleagues, and on social media. This will help us grow the community and make Gitingest even better.
- **Use Gitingest**: The best feedback comes from real-world usage! If you encounter any issues or have ideas for improvement, please let us know by [creating an issue](https://github.com/cyclotruc/gitingest/issues/new) on GitHub or by reaching out to us on [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/zerRaGK9EC).

## How to submit a Pull Request

1. Fork the repository.

2. Clone the forked repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/cyclotruc/gitingest.git
   cd gitingest
   ```

3. Set up the development environment and install dependencies:

   ```bash
   python -m venv .venv
   source .venv/bin/activate
   pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
   pre-commit install
   ```

4. Create a new branch for your changes:

    ```bash
    git checkout -b your-branch
    ```

5. Make your changes. Make sure to add corresponding tests for your changes.

6. Stage your changes:

    ```bash
    git add .
    ```

7. Run the tests:

   ```bash
   pytest
   ```

8. Run the local web server

   1. Navigate to src folder

        ``` bash
        cd src
        ```

   2. Run the local web server:

      ``` bash
      uvicorn server.main:app
      ```

   3. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8000` to see the app running.

9. Confirm that everything is working as expected. If you encounter any issues, fix them and repeat steps 6 to 8.

10. Commit your changes:

    ```bash
    git commit -m "Your commit message"
    ```

    If `pre-commit` raises any issues, fix them and repeat steps 6 to 9.

11. Push your changes:

    ```bash
    git push origin your-branch
    ```

12. Open a pull request on GitHub. Make sure to include a detailed description of your changes.

13. Wait for the maintainers to review your pull request. If there are any issues, fix them and repeat steps 6 to 12.

    *(Optional) Invite project maintainer to your branch for easier collaboration.*

## Commit & Versioning Best Practices

- Use **atomic commits**: each commit should represent a single logical change.
- Follow the [gitmoji](https://gitmoji.dev/) convention to illustrate your commits with an emoji (copy the emoji directly into the message).
- Recommended structure: `<emoji> <type/scope>: clear message`
  - Examples:
    - `✨ feat(cli): add dynamic subcommand generation`
    - `♻️ refactor: centralize classification rules in YAML`
    - `🐛 fix: correct allowlist handling in scan`
    - `🚀 perf: parallelize file reading and add progress bar`
- Use **semantic versioning** for releases.
- As this is a fork, please ensure your contributions respect the original project's spirit while bringing advanced improvements.
